Retrieval-Augmented Generation(RAG) is a way to optimize the output of an LLM

major disadvantages of LLM :-
a. based on fix time data so queries after that, it will give random answers which is known as "hallucinating"
b. instead of fine-tuning we can fix it by impleting the RAG pipeline

data parsing - how do we read the data and then how do we chunk the data because we need to store the data in a "Vector Database"

Vector Database : 
vectors:numerical representation for text so that we can apply algorithms like similarity search, cosine similarity

data injestion: converting data into embeddings and then storing them in a database

The normal flow of an LLM conversation was:

USER --> Query+Prompt --> output

but with RAG we can make it like 

USER --> Query+Prompt (made embeddings) ---> Vector database (so that similarity search is applied) --> (we get context and then we right an instruction called prompt) ---> LLM ---> output
(The pipeline mentioned above is a tradional RAG pipeline known as the retrieval pipeline)

Perplexity --> based on RAG pipeline

2 Important pipelines :
1.Data Injestion pipeline and 2.Retrieval pipeline:
data injestion --> data parsing --> embedding --> retriever (give context to the LLM and this part is known as "Retrieval pipeline")--> LLM --> output (generating)
(the above process is known as Augmentation) 

  
1. Data Injestion
let's say we have different files like PDF, HTML, Excel so we need to see how we can do the data parsing and then convert into the document structure 
After data parsing, the next step is chunking.
Why do we need chunking?
It is basically that we are dividing into smaller parts. The reason we do is because every LLM model with respect to embeddings they have a fixed context size. We cant give a file more than the context size. 
Then after this process, for every chunking we apply embeddings and then store these embeddings into a Vector Database, where everything will be stored as vectors.
Then after storing, we will be able to apply any kind of similarity search. 